---
layout: post
title:  "Dr.Pry"
date:   2016-07-31 09:00:00 -0500
categories: blog
---

### Or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love to Debug

Bugs suck. A missing space or semicolon here or there can launch you down a black hole of stress and wasted time. Gems like pry and byebug have been a huge help in tracking down and stomping out bugs. Here are a few pry commands I've found to be especially useful:

<!--more-->

<br>
`ls 'some_object'` shows the methods of that object.

`? 'some_object'` shows documentation and `$ 'some_object'` shows source.

If you want to be explicit about an instance method, you can call `'some_object#instance_method'`

`whereami` shows you where you are in the code (useful with `binding.pry`)

`_` is a local variable that stores the last output, i.e:
```
str = "string"
=> "string"
_
=> "string"
```
and pressing `alt+_` will bring up the full name of the variable.

`_file_` is another local variable that stores the last file that was called.

`edit --ex` opens an editor right at the line that raised an exception.

And maybe my favorite: Pry supports `wtf?`, which shows you the backtrace.

<br>
I recently started working with rails apps, which has it's own little world of bug issues. Working with an opinionated framework like Rails is great for quickly pushing out live applications, but it also makes for some truly inscrutable error messages. Using the wrong parameter can shut down your application midway through a process. Forgetting to pluralize a word here or there can throw all of your routes into chaos. And then there are deployment errors.   
<br>
Luckily, you can use pry with rails.
The better_errors can implement pry with BetterErrors.use_pry!
There's also a pry-rails gem which replaces the IRB when using `rails console`.  
