---
layout: post
title: Free Time
date: '2017-06-27 12:00:00 -0500'
categories: blog code
---

In between battling impostor syndrome and contemplating if I will be replaced in ten years time by some AI that simply copies code from stackoverflow, I've dabbled in a few side projects:

<br>

**Raspberry Pies**

Using [this tutorial](https://readwrite.com/2014/04/10/raspberry-pi-vpn-tutorial-server-secure-web-browsing/) I stumbled my way through creating a VPN out of a Raspberry Pi. I learned that iptables are scary and mysterious. I also vindicated every math teacher I've ever had in learning that encryption really is just math.
<!--more-->
Seriously though, [Diffie-Hellman key exchange](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffie%E2%80%93Hellman_key_exchange) is an elegant and deceptively simple solution to the problem of sharing secrets. If nothing else, my little VPN experiment made me appreciate the field of cryptography that much more. I got the VPN working on my laptop and phone, but haven't really been paranoid enough to take the extra step and use it regularly. I was considering re-purposing my pi to host something like a...

<br>

**Slackbot**

One weekend I got bored and created a dead simple slackbot based on my parent's dog, Buddy. Essentially say anything to the bot and it replies with variations of "bark". And thus BuddyBot&trade; was born. The following Monday I turned around and created a bot at work to help out slack channels using essentially the same format, just with a slightly greater vocabulary. What they say about being first to market is true. There was much celebration and hype and expectations quickly rose on what the bot should be able to do. The future of the bot seems to be NLP, possibly leveraging [Lex](https://aws.amazon.com/lex/). Which leads me to...

<br>

**Machine Learning**

I started poking at various machine learning courses online. The most robust course I've found so far is [fast.ai](http://course.fast.ai/). Which means I need to replay the first lesson a couple more times before I start understanding what's going on. What's great about this course is that I used it to justify my purchase of a mid-tier NVIDIA GPU. Which I also justified by telling myself I would get into...

<br>

**Cryptocurrency**

Using the aforementioned GPU, I decided to delve into the big shady world (well not so much anymore) of cryptocurrencies. I settled on [mining etherium](https://www.meebey.net/posts/ethereum_gpu_mining_on_linux_howto/) when I wasn't using my desktop for anything else.  And because I am effectively paying a fixed monthly rate for electricity, I should be able to make up for my GPU purchase in a few months. I also read the [whitepaper on bitcoin](https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf), because surely that's enough knowledge to arm myself against the countless snake oil salesmen and ponzi schemers cryptocurrencies seem to attract.
